README.md, before:

# Planetary Computer Data Catalog

A homepage and catalog of datasets provided by the Planetary Computer.

## Requirements

- Node v14.15 (LTS)
- Yarn
- Docker
- docker-compose

## Getting started

The easiest way to ensure your node environment matches the requirements is to use [nvm](https://github.com/nvm-sh/nvm#installing-and-updating), and in the project root, run:

```sh
nvm use
```

You can install `yarn` globally for that node version with:

```sh
npm install -g yarn
```

Now install the app dependencies and build the docs and external notebooks for the project:

```sh
./scripts/update

```

Now you can start the development server, and the site should be accessible at <http://localhost:3000>.

```sh
./scripts/server
```

To build the latest docs or external notebook, or if any new dependencies have been added, re-run `./scripts/update` (you may need to refresh the app in your browser if the site was running).

### Developing

There are four main components to the application:

1. [etl](etl/README.md) - downloads and processes external files to be included in the application build
2. [docs](docs/README.md) - a [sphinx](https://www.sphinx-doc.org/en/master/)-powered, markdown based documentation system
3. [api](api/README.md) - an Azure Function app that provides a lightweight backend
4. src - the main React application, bootstrapped from [Create React App](https://create-react-app.dev/)

#### Frontend development

First, copy `.env.sample` file to `.env`, and ensure the configuration values are set.

| Name | Value | Description |
|---|---|---|
`REACT_APP_API_ROOT`| <https://planetarycomputer-staging.microsoft.com> | The root URL for the PCE, either prod, staging or a local instance.
|`REACT_APP_AZMAPS_KEY`| Optional. Retrieve from Azure Portal| The key used to authenticate the Azure Maps inset map on a dataset detail page.
|`REACT_APP_HUB_URL`| Optional. URL ending with `user-redirect/git-pull` | Used to enable a request to launch the Hub with a specific git hosted file.|

Run `./scripts/server` to launch a development server.

#### Developing against local STAC assets

The `REACT_APP_API_ROOT` can be set to a local instance of the MQE if you are
prototyping changes to collections. However, as a shortcut, you can also run the
`./scripts/mockstac` script in order to locally serve a static json file from
`/mockstac/collections`. Simply alter the contents of the JSON file as you need,
and set your `REACT_APP_API_ROOT` value to `http://localhost:8866` and restart
your dev server.

#### Feature flags

A simple feature flag system is included in the application. To add a flagged feature during development:

1. Wrap the component to be shown or hidden with a `Feature` component, providing a `name`.
2. In `/utils/featureFlags.js` add an object to the list with `name`, `description`, and `active` (`bool`)
3. Use the script in `/extra/ff-bookmarklet.js` to toggle features on a running site
   1. Use a JS minifier like <https://javascript-minifier.com/> to minimize the file
   2. Add a new bookmark, and paste the minified JS as the URL. You'll likely need add the `javascript:` label back to the front of the screen.
4. Toggle feature flags on or off. Be sure that the site works in both states.
5. Remove the `Feature` component and the flag entry when the feature is mature enough to be included.

#### API development

To debug or extend the small API backend, please read the [API README](api/README.md).

## Ports

| Service                  | Port |
|--------------------------|------|
| Webpack Dev Server       | 3000 |
| Functions App Dev Server | 7071 |
| Mock STAC API Server     | 8866 |

## Scripts

| Name       | Description                                                                                                    |
|------------|----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| `clean`    | Removes intermediate build files from docs and dataset codefiles                                               |
| `mockstac` | Serves contents of `/mockstac/collections` at http://localhost:8866                                            |
| `server`   | Runs frontend development server                                                                               |
| `test`     | Runs unit tests and linter                                                                                     |
| `update`   | Install dependencies and build etl and docs content. Use `--devdocs` to develop against a local notebook repo. |
| `yarn *`   | Run configured `yarn` commands like `yarn add`, `yarn lint`, `yarn test`, etc                                  |

## Deploying

There are 2 Azure Static Web App services enabled, one for staging and another for production. They are configured via [the GitHub workflow files](.github/workflows). Generally, merging to deployment branches will initiate a build and deploy with the service framework:

- `develop`: Deploys to staging (`pc-datacatalog`)
- `main`: Deploys to production (`pc-datacatalog-production`)

Opening a PR against either branch will also create an ephemeral staging environment, and a site link will be added to the PR comment section.

The release process can be managed with git flow, initialized with the default settings. To bring forth a production release, follow these steps:

- Start a release

```bash
git flow release start X.Y.Z
```

- Bump the version number in `package.json` and check it in

```bash
git status # check staging area is clean
git add package.json
git commit -m "X.Y.Z"
```

- Publish the release

```bash
git flow release publish X.Y.Z
```

- Finish and push the release branch
  - When prompted, keep default commit messages
  - Use `X.Y.Z` as the tag message

```bash
git flow release finish -p X.Y.Z
```

## Contributing

This project welcomes contributions and suggestions. Most contributions require you to agree to a
Contributor License Agreement (CLA) declaring that you have the right to, and actually do, grant us
the rights to use your contribution. For details, visit <https://cla.opensource.microsoft.com>.

When you submit a pull request, a CLA bot will automatically determine whether you need to provide
a CLA and decorate the PR appropriately (e.g., status check, comment). Simply follow the instructions
provided by the bot. You will only need to do this once across all repos using our CLA.

This project has adopted the [Microsoft Open Source Code of Conduct](https://opensource.microsoft.com/codeofconduct/).
For more information see the [Code of Conduct FAQ](https://opensource.microsoft.com/codeofconduct/faq/) or
contact [opencode@microsoft.com](mailto:opencode@microsoft.com) with any additional questions or comments.

## Trademarks

This project may contain trademarks or logos for projects, products, or services. Authorized use of Microsoft
trademarks or logos is subject to and must follow
[Microsoft's Trademark & Brand Guidelines](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/legal/intellectualproperty/trademarks/usage/general).
Use of Microsoft trademarks or logos in modified versions of this project must not cause confusion or imply Microsoft sponsorship.
Any use of third-party trademarks or logos are subject to those third-party's policies.

Commit message:

Migrate JSLL to 1DS
New telemetry system with do not track set on form input fields.

README.md, after:

# Planetary Computer Data Catalog

A homepage and catalog of datasets provided by the Planetary Computer.

## Requirements

- Node v14.15 (LTS)
- Yarn
- Docker
- docker-compose

## Getting started

The easiest way to ensure your node environment matches the requirements is to use [nvm](https://github.com/nvm-sh/nvm#installing-and-updating), and in the project root, run:

```sh
nvm use
```

You can install `yarn` globally for that node version with:

```sh
npm install -g yarn
```

Now install the app dependencies and build the docs and external notebooks for the project:

```sh
./scripts/update

```

Now you can start the development server, and the site should be accessible at <http://localhost:3000>.

```sh
./scripts/server
```

To build the latest docs or external notebook, or if any new dependencies have been added, re-run `./scripts/update` (you may need to refresh the app in your browser if the site was running).

### Developing

There are four main components to the application:

1. [etl](etl/README.md) - downloads and processes external files to be included in the application build
2. [docs](docs/README.md) - a [sphinx](https://www.sphinx-doc.org/en/master/)-powered, markdown based documentation system
3. [api](api/README.md) - an Azure Function app that provides a lightweight backend
4. src - the main React application, bootstrapped from [Create React App](https://create-react-app.dev/)

#### Frontend development

First, copy `.env.sample` file to `.env`, and ensure the configuration values are set.

| Name | Value | Description |
|---|---|---|
`REACT_APP_API_ROOT`| <https://planetarycomputer-staging.microsoft.com> | The root URL for the PCE, either prod, staging or a local instance.
|`REACT_APP_AZMAPS_KEY`| Optional. Retrieve from Azure Portal| The key used to authenticate the Azure Maps inset map on a dataset detail page.
|`REACT_APP_HUB_URL`| Optional. URL ending with `user-redirect/git-pull` | Used to enable a request to launch the Hub with a specific git hosted file.|
|`REACT_APP_ONEDS_TENANT_KEY`| Lookup at <https://1dswhitelisting.azurewebsites.net/> | Telemetry key (not needed for dev)

Run `./scripts/server` to launch a development server.

#### Developing against local STAC assets

The `REACT_APP_API_ROOT` can be set to a local instance of the MQE if you are
prototyping changes to collections. However, as a shortcut, you can also run the
`./scripts/mockstac` script in order to locally serve a static json file from
`/mockstac/collections`. Simply alter the contents of the JSON file as you need,
and set your `REACT_APP_API_ROOT` value to `http://localhost:8866` and restart
your dev server.

#### Feature flags

A simple feature flag system is included in the application. To add a flagged feature during development:

1. Wrap the component to be shown or hidden with a `Feature` component, providing a `name`.
2. In `/utils/featureFlags.js` add an object to the list with `name`, `description`, and `active` (`bool`)
3. Use the script in `/extra/ff-bookmarklet.js` to toggle features on a running site
   1. Use a JS minifier like <https://javascript-minifier.com/> to minimize the file
   2. Add a new bookmark, and paste the minified JS as the URL. You'll likely need add the `javascript:` label back to the front of the screen.
4. Toggle feature flags on or off. Be sure that the site works in both states.
5. Remove the `Feature` component and the flag entry when the feature is mature enough to be included.

#### API development

To debug or extend the small API backend, please read the [API README](api/README.md).

## Ports

| Service                  | Port |
|--------------------------|------|
| Webpack Dev Server       | 3000 |
| Functions App Dev Server | 7071 |
| Mock STAC API Server     | 8866 |

## Scripts

| Name       | Description                                                                                                    |
|------------|----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| `clean`    | Removes intermediate build files from docs and dataset codefiles                                               |
| `mockstac` | Serves contents of `/mockstac/collections` at http://localhost:8866                                            |
| `server`   | Runs frontend development server                                                                               |
| `test`     | Runs unit tests and linter                                                                                     |
| `update`   | Install dependencies and build etl and docs content. Use `--devdocs` to develop against a local notebook repo. |
| `yarn *`   | Run configured `yarn` commands like `yarn add`, `yarn lint`, `yarn test`, etc                                  |

## Deploying

There are 2 Azure Static Web App services enabled, one for staging and another for production. They are configured via [the GitHub workflow files](.github/workflows). Generally, merging to deployment branches will initiate a build and deploy with the service framework:

- `develop`: Deploys to staging (`pc-datacatalog`)
- `main`: Deploys to production (`pc-datacatalog-production`)

Opening a PR against either branch will also create an ephemeral staging environment, and a site link will be added to the PR comment section.

The release process can be managed with git flow, initialized with the default settings. To bring forth a production release, follow these steps:

- Start a release

```bash
git flow release start X.Y.Z
```

- Bump the version number in `package.json` and check it in

```bash
git status # check staging area is clean
git add package.json
git commit -m "X.Y.Z"
```

- Publish the release

```bash
git flow release publish X.Y.Z
```

- Finish and push the release branch
  - When prompted, keep default commit messages
  - Use `X.Y.Z` as the tag message

```bash
git flow release finish -p X.Y.Z
```

## Contributing

This project welcomes contributions and suggestions. Most contributions require you to agree to a
Contributor License Agreement (CLA) declaring that you have the right to, and actually do, grant us
the rights to use your contribution. For details, visit <https://cla.opensource.microsoft.com>.

When you submit a pull request, a CLA bot will automatically determine whether you need to provide
a CLA and decorate the PR appropriately (e.g., status check, comment). Simply follow the instructions
provided by the bot. You will only need to do this once across all repos using our CLA.

This project has adopted the [Microsoft Open Source Code of Conduct](https://opensource.microsoft.com/codeofconduct/).
For more information see the [Code of Conduct FAQ](https://opensource.microsoft.com/codeofconduct/faq/) or
contact [opencode@microsoft.com](mailto:opencode@microsoft.com) with any additional questions or comments.

## Trademarks

This project may contain trademarks or logos for projects, products, or services. Authorized use of Microsoft
trademarks or logos is subject to and must follow
[Microsoft's Trademark & Brand Guidelines](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/legal/intellectualproperty/trademarks/usage/general).
Use of Microsoft trademarks or logos in modified versions of this project must not cause confusion or imply Microsoft sponsorship.
Any use of third-party trademarks or logos are subject to those third-party's policies.
