docs/overview/about.md, before:

# About the Microsoft Planetary Computer

The Microsoft Planetary Computer is a platform for connecting users, data, and technology together with the power of the [Azure](https://azure.microsoft.com/en-us/) cloud to accelerate environmental computing.

The Planetary Computer consists of four major components:
- [Open Data](https://planetarycomputer.microsoft.com/catalog) which hosted on Azure and made available to users for free.
- [APIs](../concepts/stac.md) that enable searching for the data users need through space and time.
- The [Hub](../concepts/computing.md) which brings the latest technologies in cloud computing for environmental science together on a fully managed platform hosted on Azure.
- [Applications](https://planetarycomputer.microsoft.com/applications) that our partners are building using these data and tools.

## Built on Open

The Planetary Computer is built to operate on open data, using open source tools, and implement open standards. It strives to empower people already doing the important work of protecting our Earth to move faster. That's why a key tenant of the Planetary Computer is it's integration into and support of the open source ecosystem it is built on. You'll notice a lot of our documentation shows how to use open source tools on our data, APIs and computing environment to extract information and build results. The real work of the Planetary Computer is done by enabling users to easily integrate the the power of cloud computing on Azure with the incredible ecosystem of tools being developed in the open by Microsoft, our partners, and the much broader open source community.

## About Private Preview

While the Planetary Computer data and APIs are publicly accessible, certain features of the Planetary Computer are in Private Preview and require specific access be granted. Use the [request access form](https://planetarycomputer.microsoft.com/account/request) to express your interest in becoming an early user.

We're just getting started. Check back for updated documentation and new features!

## Next Steps

- [Browse the data available in the Planetary Computer through the Data Catalog](https://planetarycomputer.microsoft.com/catalog)
- [Learn how to search for Planetary Computer data using the STAC API](../quickstarts/reading-stac.ipynb)
- Check out the example notebooks for out indexed datasets
  - [Landsat 8 Collection 2](http://planetarycomputer.microsoft.com/dataset/landsat-8-c2-l2#Example-Notebook)
  - [Sentinel 2 L2A](http://planetarycomputer.microsoft.com/dataset/sentinel-2-l2a#Example-Notebook)
  - [NAIP]((http://planetarycomputer.microsoft.com/dataset/naip#Example-Notebook))
  - [ASTER L1T]((http://planetarycomputer.microsoft.com/dataset/aster-l1t#Example-Notebook))
- [Request access to a Planetary Computer account](https://planetarycomputer.microsoft.com/account/request)

Commit message:

Minor edits to about.md, land cover notebook

docs/overview/about.md, after:

# About the Microsoft Planetary Computer

The Microsoft Planetary Computer is a platform that lets users leverage the power of the [Azure](https://azure.microsoft.com/en-us/) cloud to accelerate environmental sustainability and Earth science.

The Planetary Computer consists of four major components:
- The [Data Catalog](https://planetarycomputer.microsoft.com/catalog), which includes petabytes of data about Earth systems, hosted on Azure and made available to users for free.
- [APIs](../concepts/stac.md) that allow users to search for the data they need across space and time.
- The [Hub](../concepts/computing.md), a fully managed computing environment that allows scientists to process massive geospatial datasets.
- [Applications](https://planetarycomputer.microsoft.com/applications), built by our network of partners, that put the Planetary Computer platform to work for environmental sustainability.

## Built on Open

The Planetary Computer is built to operate on open data, using open-source tools, and supporting open standards. You'll notice that a lot of our documentation demonstrates the use of open-source tools to interact with our data, APIs, and computing environment to extract and analyze spatial data.  The foundation of the Planetary Computer is the incredible ecosystem of tools being developed in the open by our partners and the much broader-open source community.

## About Private Preview

While the Planetary Computer data and APIs are publicly accessible, certain features of the Planetary Computer are in Private Preview and require access be granted. Use the [request access form](https://planetarycomputer.microsoft.com/account/request) to express your interest in becoming an early user.

We're just getting started. Check back for updated documentation and new features!

## Next Steps

- [Browse the data available in the Planetary Computer through the Data Catalog](https://planetarycomputer.microsoft.com/catalog)
- [Learn how to search for Planetary Computer data using the STAC API](../quickstarts/reading-stac.ipynb)
- Check out the example notebooks for our indexed datasets:
  - [Landsat 8 Collection 2](http://planetarycomputer.microsoft.com/dataset/landsat-8-c2-l2#Example-Notebook)
  - [Sentinel 2 L2A](http://planetarycomputer.microsoft.com/dataset/sentinel-2-l2a#Example-Notebook)
  - [NAIP]((http://planetarycomputer.microsoft.com/dataset/naip#Example-Notebook))
  - [ASTER L1T]((http://planetarycomputer.microsoft.com/dataset/aster-l1t#Example-Notebook))
- [Request a Planetary Computer account](https://planetarycomputer.microsoft.com/account/request)
