docs/overview/explorer.md, before:

# Planetary Computer Explorer

```{image} images/explorer-docs.jpg
:height: 550
:name: Planetary Computer Explorer screenshot
:class: no-scaled-link
```

The [Planetary Computer Explorer][1] allows you to search datasets from our
catalog and visualize the results individually and as mosaics on a map. Many of
the datasets on the Planetary Computer are updated repeatedly over time, with
data items overlapping geographically. Finding the right subset can be a time
consuming process using programmatic tools, with a slow search-render-iterate
feedback loop. The Explorer was designed to allow users to quickly find and
visualize data, and easily recreate their searches in an analytic environment
like our [Hub][pc-docs-hub].

Additionally, it's a great tool for casual browsing to get more familiar with
datasets, their spatiotemporal range, and to understand what types of
features are visible at different pixel resolutions.

## Selecting datasets

Datasets that are available in the Explorer can be selected in the top dropdown,
which is grouped by category.

```{image} images/explorer-ds.jpg
:height: 200
:name: Planetary Computer Explorer dataset selection
:class: no-scaled-link
```

Datasets can also be opened in the Explorer directly from their
[catalog][pc-catalog] page. These buttons will launch the Explorer at a
location that has data availability and an interesting visualization.

```{image} images/explorer-launch.jpg
:height: 300
:name: Planetary Computer Explorer catalog selection
:class: no-scaled-link
```

After selecting a dataset, a pre-configured query and appropriate rendering
options are automatically selected to get you started. Many datasets have
several options for both, while others are best represented by a single query
and rendering option. Customizing both of these presets is on our roadmap.
While using the Explorer, the URL in your web browser will contain the relevant
selections, and can be bookmarked or shared.

Currently, only datasets with GeoTiff data assets are available in the Explorer,
but support for additional formats is planned.

## Viewing results

An initial list of items matching the pre-configured search is presented in the
Explorer sidebar. These items represent the assets that are also used in the map
mosaic. Hovering over an item in the list will highlight the footprint of that
item in the list, so you can see how it contributes to the mosaic. Depending on
the footprint size and the map zoom level, only a portion of the item may be
represented. To see the full item rendered on the map, click the result item to
open its detail view. On the detail view, you have access to all the item's
metadata fields and a list of all the assets that it contains, including the
keys needed to access them from the [Planetary Computer STAC API][pc-docs-api].

You'll also see a larger preview image using the currently selected rendering
option. To see a complete representation of the item on the map, click the small
map icon under the preview image. This will toggle the map view to show only the
single item on the map. Browse and zoom around; when you return to the detail
list, you will return to your original viewport and search results.

```{image} images/explorer-item.png
:height: 500
:name: Planetary Computer Explorer item screenshot
:class: no-scaled-link
```

Depending on how restrictive your query is, or the general availability of
a dataset in a certain area, they may be "gaps" in the map layer. Since this is
a mosaicked view, that is expected. Similarly, for imagery datasets, the images
stitched together may be from different days, under different weather
conditions, and won't necessarily be a seamless mosaic.

Not all datasets have global coverage. If you switch to a new dataset while in
an area without coverage, or pan outside of the covered area, look for a notice
to direct you to the valid extent.

```{image} images/explorer-extent.png
:width: 500
:name: Planetary Computer Explorer extent notice
:class: no-scaled-link
```

### Custom filters

Each dataset is preconfigured with a set of filters that can be used to find
representative items in a dataset quickly. The Explorer also has an Advanced mode
that allows you to customize the filters for your query. To activate Advanced mode, simply select the dataset you're interested in and click the "Advanced" link.

```{image} images/explorer-advanced.jpg
:width: 400
:name: Planetary Computer Explorer advanced mode
:class: no-scaled-link
```

The custom filter will start with a date-range filter by default, but you can
click the "Select filters" link to select any number of attributes on the
dataset to use in a custom filter. Selected attributes will be displayed in a
custom control relevant to its data type to help ensure that your filter is
valid and will return results.

```{image} images/explorer-advanced-filters.jpg
:width: 500
:name: Planetary Computer Explorer advanced filters
:class: no-scaled-link
```

### Rendering options

The Explorer is pre-configured with appropriate rendering options for each asset
in a dataset. For items with multiple assets, each representing a distinct data
variable, each rendering option will be a single asset with an appropriate color
map applied. For example, [Harmonized Global Biomass][hgb] has four assets, each
representing a different measure of stored carbon. Imagery datasets on the other
hand, list various rendering options that combine bands into well known RGB
interpretations or expressions, like false color or NDVI. To see a description of the
selected rendering option, click the info button next to the search results.

```{image} images/explorer-queryinfo.png
:height: 500
:name: Planetary Computer Explorer query info
:class: no-scaled-link
```

#### Legends

If the selected rendering option represents a categorical or continuous variable,
a legend will appear showing the color map and value range, or the categories and their respective colors on the map.

```{image} images/explorer-legend.jpg
:height: 100
:name: Planetary Computer Explorer legend
:class: no-scaled-link
```

```{image} images/explorer-legend-class.jpg
:height: 200
:name: Planetary Computer Explorer classmap legend
:class: no-scaled-link
```

### Working with results in the Hub

Finding and visualizing data items is likely only the first step in your data
analysis workflow. The Explorer provides two options to move your search results
into a compute environment like the [Planetary Computer Hub][pc-docs-hub]. By
clicking "Explore results in the Hub" under the search results, you can generate
a Python snippet to recreate your exact search covering the map
viewport. This can be copied and launched into a new Hub notebook:

```{image} images/explorer-hub.png
:height: 500
:name: Planetary Computer Explorer hub code
:class: no-scaled-link
```

Or, if you're interested in working with a single item you've found, you can
generate a Python snippet by clicking the "code" (`{ }`) button which will load
that single item in the Hub:

```{image} images/explorer-item-hub.png
:height: 500
:name: Planetary Computer Explorer hub item code
:class: no-scaled-link
```

Since our data and APIs are accessible to anyone with or without a Hub account,
these snippets can be run in other Python compute environments. Please refer to
our [data access documentation][pc-docs-sas] for more details.

## Coming soon

We're constantly adding improvements to the Planetary Computer and the Explorer. Upcoming features include:

- Visualization support for Zarr-backed datasets
- Hub integration to build queries and visualize search results within a notebook
- Loading multiple dataset search results as map layers
- Layer comparison features

Watch for future announcements, and [visit our GitHub Discussions](https://github.com/microsoft/PlanetaryComputer/discussions) for feedback or questions.

[1]: https://planetarycomputer.microsoft.com/explore
[pc-docs-hub]: https://planetarycomputer.microsoft.com/docs/overview/environment
[pc-docs-api]: https://planetarycomputer.microsoft.com/docs/quickstarts/reading-stac/
[pc-docs-sas]: https://planetarycomputer.microsoft.com/docs/concepts/sas/
[pc-catalog]: https://planetarycomputer.microsoft.com/catalog
[hgb]: https://planetarycomputer.microsoft.com/dataset/hgb

Commit message:

Update Explorer docs for pinned layers

docs/overview/explorer.md, after:

# Planetary Computer Explorer

```{image} images/explorer-docs.jpg
:height: 550
:name: Planetary Computer Explorer screenshot
:class: no-scaled-link
```

The [Planetary Computer Explorer][1] allows you to search datasets from our
catalog and visualize the results individually and as mosaics on a map. Many of
the datasets on the Planetary Computer are updated repeatedly over time, with
data items overlapping geographically. Finding the right subset can be a time
consuming process using programmatic tools, with a slow search-render-iterate
feedback loop. The Explorer was designed to allow users to quickly find and
visualize data, and easily recreate their searches in an analytic environment
like our [Hub][pc-docs-hub].

Additionally, it's a great tool for casual browsing to get more familiar with
datasets, their spatiotemporal range, and to understand what types of
features are visible at different pixel resolutions.

## Selecting datasets

Datasets that are available in the Explorer can be selected in the top dropdown,
which is grouped by category.

```{image} images/explorer-ds.jpg
:height: 200
:name: Planetary Computer Explorer dataset selection
:class: no-scaled-link
```

Datasets can also be opened in the Explorer directly from their
[catalog][pc-catalog] page. These buttons will launch the Explorer at a
location that has data availability and an interesting visualization.

```{image} images/explorer-launch.jpg
:height: 300
:name: Planetary Computer Explorer catalog selection
:class: no-scaled-link
```

After selecting a dataset, a pre-configured query and appropriate rendering
options are automatically selected to get you started. Many datasets have
several options for both, while others are best represented by a single query
and rendering option. Customizing both of these presets is on our roadmap.
While using the Explorer, the URL in your web browser will contain the relevant
selections, and can be bookmarked or shared.

Currently, only datasets with GeoTiff data assets are available in the Explorer,
but support for additional formats is planned.

## Viewing results

An initial list of items matching the pre-configured search is presented in the
Explorer sidebar. These items represent the assets that are also used in the map
mosaic. Hovering over an item in the list will highlight the footprint of that
item in the list, so you can see how it contributes to the mosaic. Depending on
the footprint size and the map zoom level, only a portion of the item may be
represented. To see the full item rendered on the map, click the result item to
open its detail view. On the detail view, you have access to all the item's
metadata fields and a list of all the assets that it contains, including the
keys needed to access them from the [Planetary Computer STAC API][pc-docs-api].

You'll also see a larger preview image using the currently selected rendering
option. To see a complete representation of the item on the map, click the small
map icon under the preview image. This will toggle the map view to show only the
single item on the map. Browse and zoom around; when you return to the detail
list, you will return to your original viewport and search results.

```{image} images/explorer-item.png
:height: 500
:name: Planetary Computer Explorer item screenshot
:class: no-scaled-link
```

Depending on how restrictive your query is, or the general availability of
a dataset in a certain area, they may be "gaps" in the map layer. Since this is
a mosaicked view, that is expected. Similarly, for imagery datasets, the images
stitched together may be from different days, under different weather
conditions, and won't necessarily be a seamless mosaic.

Not all datasets have global coverage. If you switch to a new dataset while in
an area without coverage, or pan outside of the covered area, look for a notice
to direct you to the valid extent.

```{image} images/explorer-extent.png
:width: 500
:name: Planetary Computer Explorer extent notice
:class: no-scaled-link
```

### Custom filters

Each dataset is preconfigured with a set of filters that can be used to find
representative items in a dataset quickly. The Explorer also has an Advanced mode
that allows you to customize the filters for your query. To activate Advanced mode, simply select the dataset you're interested in and click the "Advanced" link.

```{image} images/explorer-advanced.jpg
:width: 400
:name: Planetary Computer Explorer advanced mode
:class: no-scaled-link
```

The custom filter will start with a date-range filter by default, but you can
click the "Select filters" link to select any number of attributes on the
dataset to use in a custom filter. Selected attributes will be displayed in a
custom control relevant to its data type to help ensure that your filter is
valid and will return results.

```{image} images/explorer-advanced-filters.jpg
:width: 500
:name: Planetary Computer Explorer advanced filters
:class: no-scaled-link
```

### Rendering options

The Explorer is pre-configured with appropriate rendering options for each asset
in a dataset. For items with multiple assets, each representing a distinct data
variable, each rendering option will be a single asset with an appropriate color
map applied. For example, [Harmonized Global Biomass][hgb] has four assets, each
representing a different measure of stored carbon. Imagery datasets on the other
hand, list various rendering options that combine bands into well known RGB
interpretations or expressions, like false color or NDVI. To see a description of the
selected rendering option, click the info button next to the search results.

```{image} images/explorer-queryinfo.png
:height: 500
:name: Planetary Computer Explorer query info
:class: no-scaled-link
```

#### Legends

If the selected rendering option represents a categorical or continuous variable,
a legend will appear showing the color map and value range, or the categories and their respective colors on the map.

```{image} images/explorer-legend.jpg
:height: 100
:name: Planetary Computer Explorer legend
:class: no-scaled-link
```

```{image} images/explorer-legend-class.jpg
:height: 200
:name: Planetary Computer Explorer classmap legend
:class: no-scaled-link
```

### Working with multiple layers

The Explorer works with multiple layers at once, allowing overlays and comparisons
between different datasets or different search results and rendering options of hte same layer. To pin the current search results to the map, click on the pin icon next to the search results or in the legend. This will clear out the current search, but leave the mosaic on the map. You can continue to search and pin layers to the map. The legend will show options for moving the layer order, toggling visibility, changing opacity, or re-editing the mosaic search or render options. By adjusting the opacity of layers, you can also compare spatially overlapping data items from different temporal ranges.

```{image} images/explorer-pinned-layers-sm.png
:width: 800
:name: Planetary Computer Explorer multi layer legend
:class: no-scaled-link
```

### Working with results in the Hub

Finding and visualizing data items is likely only the first step in your data
analysis workflow. The Explorer provides two options to move your search results
into a compute environment like the [Planetary Computer Hub][pc-docs-hub]. By
clicking "Explore results in the Hub" under the search results, you can generate
a Python snippet to recreate your exact search covering the map
viewport. This can be copied and launched into a new Hub notebook:

```{image} images/explorer-hub.png
:height: 500
:name: Planetary Computer Explorer hub code
:class: no-scaled-link
```

Or, if you're interested in working with a single item you've found, you can
generate a Python snippet by clicking the "code" (`{ }`) button which will load
that single item in the Hub:

```{image} images/explorer-item-hub.png
:height: 500
:name: Planetary Computer Explorer hub item code
:class: no-scaled-link
```

Since our data and APIs are accessible to anyone with or without a Hub account,
these snippets can be run in other Python compute environments. Please refer to
our [data access documentation][pc-docs-sas] for more details.

## Coming soon

We're constantly adding improvements to the Planetary Computer and the Explorer. Upcoming features include:

- Visualization support for Zarr-backed datasets
- Hub integration to build queries and visualize search results within a notebook
- Layer comparison features

Watch for future announcements, and [visit our GitHub Discussions](https://github.com/microsoft/PlanetaryComputer/discussions) for feedback or questions.

[1]: https://planetarycomputer.microsoft.com/explore
[pc-docs-hub]: https://planetarycomputer.microsoft.com/docs/overview/environment
[pc-docs-api]: https://planetarycomputer.microsoft.com/docs/quickstarts/reading-stac/
[pc-docs-sas]: https://planetarycomputer.microsoft.com/docs/concepts/sas/
[pc-catalog]: https://planetarycomputer.microsoft.com/catalog
[hgb]: https://planetarycomputer.microsoft.com/dataset/hgb
