docs/README.md, before:

# Overview

## Setup and dependencies

Python dependencies are encoded in `etl/requirements.txt` file, but generally managed
by the [`etl Dockerfile`](../etl/Dockerfile).

## Understanding the documentation system

1. Source files for the documentation are .md and .ipynb files stored in the `/docs` directory
2. The `/build_docs` script uses `sphinx` to generate JSON documents containing the converted HTML docs
3. The script copies the JSON documents to this `/src/docs` directory
4. When the application in built, all `*.json` files are imported via Webpack
5. The JSON/HTML is rendered within the application, and any `reference internal` links are handled by React Router

## Adding documentation

To add documentation, commit markdown or ipynb files directly to the
`docs/api` or `docs/hub` directories. These files can include directives
as allowed by [My-ST Parser](https://myst-parser.readthedocs.io/en/latest/).
Manually edit the `index.md` file to include the new documentation pages into
the Table of Contents.

To generate the rendered docs and incorporate them into the application for
development, run `./scripts/update` script. The generated markup is not
checked into the repository, but is build and bundled during the CI build
process for production.

## Adding preview documentation

If you want some documentation to be available through the site, but not
browsable through any table of content links, you can add .md or .ipynb files
in the `docs/preview` directory. They will be accessible at the URL
`docs/preview/your-file-name-no-ext`. These can be shared to preview or
review layout issues.

To suppress warnings in the Sphinx build process, include
an `orphan` [file metadata field](https://myst-parser.readthedocs.io/en/latest/using/syntax.html#front-matter).

## Placeholder documentation

There are two pieces of documentation that are included in the TOC, but
rendered with content directly from the app. These are the
`reference/[spec|sas].md` documents. They are included in the `index.md` TOC,
but the corresponding route is registered for a particular React component.
Content in the markdown files will not be rendered on the page.

### Documentation tips

- Add references to images as relative paths at `images/<image-name>.png`
- Add an alt text to all images (`![my alt text](example.com)`)
- Don't use bare URLs; if not using an actual href, surround the url in
brackets
- Notebook files are supported. Make sure they are in an executed state, as
the build process does not execute them. In-line base64 encoded images are
acceptable, they will automatically be persisted to a file in the application
build directory to keep the bundle size small.

Commit message:

Allow for links between docs pages
Supports 1 level of nesting, peers or siblings.

docs/README.md, after:

# Overview

## Setup and dependencies

Python dependencies are encoded in `etl/requirements.txt` file, but generally managed
by the [`etl Dockerfile`](../etl/Dockerfile).

## Understanding the documentation system

1. Source files for the documentation are .md and .ipynb files stored in the `/docs` directory
2. The `/build_docs` script uses `sphinx` to generate JSON documents containing the converted HTML docs
3. The script copies the JSON documents to this `/src/docs` directory
4. When the application in built, all `*.json` files are imported via Webpack
5. The JSON/HTML is rendered within the application, and any `reference internal` links are handled by React Router

## Adding documentation

To add documentation, commit markdown or ipynb files directly to the
`docs/api` or `docs/hub` directories. These files can include directives
as allowed by [My-ST Parser](https://myst-parser.readthedocs.io/en/latest/).
Manually edit the `index.md` file to include the new documentation pages into
the Table of Contents.

To generate the rendered docs and incorporate them into the application for
development, run `./scripts/update` script. The generated markup is not
checked into the repository, but is build and bundled during the CI build
process for production.

## Adding preview documentation

If you want some documentation to be available through the site, but not
browsable through any table of content links, you can add .md or .ipynb files
in the `docs/preview` directory. They will be accessible at the URL
`docs/preview/your-file-name-no-ext`. These can be shared to preview or
review layout issues.

To suppress warnings in the Sphinx build process, include
an `orphan` [file metadata field](https://myst-parser.readthedocs.io/en/latest/using/syntax.html#front-matter).

## Placeholder documentation

There are two pieces of documentation that are included in the TOC, but
rendered with content directly from the app. These are the
`reference/[spec|sas].md` documents. They are included in the `index.md` TOC,
but the corresponding route is registered for a particular React component.
Content in the markdown files will not be rendered on the page.

### Documentation tips

- Add links to other doc pages with relative paths `[link text](../overview/about.md)` or `[peer file](in-the-same-dir.ipynb)` so they will parsed by the frontend router. Be sure to include the original file extension so that Sphinx knows it's an internal reference.
- Add references to images as relative paths at `images/<image-name>.png`
- Add an alt text to all images (`![my alt text](example.com)`)
- Don't use bare URLs; if not using an actual href, surround the url in
brackets
- Notebook files are supported. Make sure they are in an executed state, as
the build process does not execute them. In-line base64 encoded images are
acceptable, they will automatically be persisted to a file in the application
build directory to keep the bundle size small.
