api/README.md, before:

# Azure Function App

The Azure Static Web App service includes an auto-deployed Function API that is managed by convention, as described in the service [documentation](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/static-web-apps/apis).

## Local development

The API can be run locally following [these instructions](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/static-web-apps/add-api#run-the-api-locally).

To set appropriate configuration values for the Function app, copy the `local.settings.sample.json` file to [`local.settings.json`](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/static-web-apps/application-settings#about-api-app-settings). This settings file is `.gitignored` and will contain sensitive secrets, so take appropriate precautions.

### Development Configuration

The `local.settings.json` file has the following keys in the Values section:

|Key|KeyVault Key|Purpose|
|---|---|---|
|`NotificationHook`|  | URL to send Teams notification on new Account Request
|`StoragePortalLink`| | URL to the Azure Portal Storage Account which contains the table. Used in the Teams notification message.
|`SignupUrl`| | URL to POST new user content to on submission
|`SignupToken` | `pc-id--request-auth-token` | Bearer token required to make the above POST request

### Production

These values, or their production equivalents, are configured in the Static
Web App `App Configuration` section.

Commit message:

Remove unused config from account request backend

api/README.md, after:

# Azure Function App

The Azure Static Web App service includes an auto-deployed Function API that is managed by convention, as described in the service [documentation](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/static-web-apps/apis).

## Local development

The API can be run locally following [these instructions](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/static-web-apps/add-api#run-the-api-locally).

To set appropriate configuration values for the Function app, copy the `local.settings.sample.json` file to [`local.settings.json`](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/static-web-apps/application-settings#about-api-app-settings). This settings file is `.gitignored` and will contain sensitive secrets, so take appropriate precautions.

### Development Configuration

The `local.settings.json` file has the following keys in the Values section:

|Key|KeyVault Key|Purpose|
|---|---|---|
|`NotificationHook`|  | URL to send Teams notification on new Account Request
|`AuthAdminUrl`| | URL to the PC ID admin page which contains the signup table. Used in the Teams notification message.
|`SignupUrl`| | URL to POST new user content to on submission
|`SignupToken` | `pc-id--request-auth-token` | Bearer token required to make the above POST request

### Production

These values, or their production equivalents, are configured in the Static
Web App `App Configuration` section.
